README.md, before:

### Apache Traffic Server - Slicer Plugin

The purpose of this plugin is to slice full file or range based requests
into deterministic chunks.

Deterministic chunks are requested from a parent cache or origin server
using a preconfigured block size.

To enable the plugin, specify the plugin library via @plugin at the end
of a remap line as follows:

```
map http://ats-server/somepath/ http://originserver/somepath @plugin=slicer.so @pparam=blocksize:2097152 @plugin=cache_range_requests.so @pparam=custom_url:X-Slicer-Info
```

for global plugins:

```
slicer.so blocksize:2097152
cache_range_requests.so custom_url:X-Slicer-Info
```

**Note**: blocksize is defined in bytes. 1048576 (1MB) is the default.

__To build the plugin__, just set your path to include the tsxs binary in your path and run make.

```
  $ make
  tsxs -v -i -o slice.so ContentRange.cc HttpHeader.cc intercept.cc range.cc slice.cc
  compiling ContentRange.cc -> ContentRange.lo
  compiling HttpHeader.cc -> HttpHeader.lo
  compiling intercept.cc -> intercept.lo
  compiling range.cc -> range.lo
  compiling slice.cc -> slice.lo
  linking -> slice.so
  installing slice.so -> .....
```  

Debug output can be enable by setting the debug tag: **slice**

Example output of a range request:

```
```

Debug messages related to object instance construction/deconstruction, see slicer.h.  

At the current time only single range requests or the first part of a 
multi part range request of the forms:
```
Range: bytes=<begin>-<end>
Range: bytes=<begin>-
Range: bytes=-<last N bytes>
```
are supported as multi part range responses are non trivial to implement.
This matches with the cache_range_requests.so plugin that has custom_url
capability.

Commit message:

remove crr_slice and update README.md

README.md, after:

### Apache Traffic Server - Slicer Plugin

The purpose of this plugin is to slice full file or range based requests
into deterministic chunks.

Deterministic chunks are requested from a parent cache or origin server
using a preconfigured block size.

To enable the plugin, specify the plugin library via @plugin at the end
of a remap line as follows:

```
map http://ats-server/somepath/ http://originserver/somepath @plugin=slice.so @pparam=blockbytes:2097152 @plugin=cache_range_requests.so
```

for global plugins.

```
slice.so blockbytes:2097152
cache_range_requests.so
```

**Note**: cache_range_requests **MUST** follow slice.so Put these plugins at the end of the plugin list
**Note**: blockbytes is defined in bytes. 1048576 (1MB) is the default.

__To build the plugin__, just set your path to include the tsxs binary in your path and run make.

```
  $ make
  tsxs -v -i -o slice.so ContentRange.cc HttpHeader.cc intercept.cc range.cc slice.cc
  compiling ContentRange.cc -> ContentRange.lo
  compiling HttpHeader.cc -> HttpHeader.lo
  compiling intercept.cc -> intercept.lo
  compiling range.cc -> range.lo
  compiling slice.cc -> slice.lo
  linking -> slice.so
  installing slice.so -> .....
```  

Debug output can be enable by setting the debug tag: **slice**

Example output of a range request:

```
```

Debug messages related to object instance construction/deconstruction, see slice.h.  

At the current time only single range requests or the first part of a 
multi part range request of the forms:
```
Range: bytes=<begin>-<end>
Range: bytes=<begin>-
Range: bytes=-<last N bytes>
```
are supported as multi part range responses are non trivial to implement.
This matches with the cache_range_requests.so plugin that has custom_url
capability.
