.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.Dd October 19, 2012
.Dt TSDebug 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME

.Nm TSDebug,
.Nm TSError,
.Nm TSIsDebugTagSet,
.Nm TSDebugSpecific,
.Nm TSHttpTxnDebugSet,
.Nm TSHttpSsnDebugSet,
.Nm TSHttpTxnDebugGet,
.Nm TSHttpSsnDebugGet,
.Nm TSAssert,
.Nm TSReleaseAssert
.Nd Traffic Server debugging APIs
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h

.Ft void
.Fo TSDebug
.Fa "const char * tag"
.Fa "const char * format"
.Fa ...
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSError
.Fa "const char * tag"
.Fa "const char * format"
.Fa ...
.Fc

.Ft int
.Fo TSIsDebugTagSet
.Fa "const char * tag"
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSDebugSpecific
.Fa "int debug_flag"
.Fa "const char * tag"
.Fa "const char * format"
.Fa ...
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSHttpTxnDebugSet
.Fa "TSHttpTxn txnp"
.Fa "int on"
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSHttpSsnDebugSet
.Fa "TSHttpSsn ssn"
.Fa "int on"
.Fc

.Ft int
.Fo TSHttpTxnDebugGet
.Fa "TSHttpTxn txnp"
.Fc

.Ft int
.Fo TSHttpSsnDebugGet
.Fa "TSHttpSsn ssn"
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSAssert
.Fa expr
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSReleaseAssert
.Fa expr
.Fc

.Sh DESCRIPTION

.Fn TSError
is similar to
.Fn printf
except that instead of writing the output to the C standard output,
it writes output to the Traffic Server error log.

.Pp
.Fn TSDebug
is the same as
.Fn TSError
except that it only logs the debug message if the given debug tag
is enabled. It writes output to the Traffic Server debug log.

.Pp
.Fn TSIsDebugSet
returns non-zero if the given debug tag is enabled.

.Pp
In debug mode,
.Fn TSAssert
Traffic Server to prints the file name, line number and expression,
and then aborts. In release mode, the expression is not removed but
the effects of printing an error message and aborting are.
.Fn TSReleaseAssert
prints an error message and aborts in both release and debug mode.

.Pp
.Fn TSDebugSpecific
emits a debug line even if the debug tag is turned off, as long as
debug flag is enabled. This can be used in conjuction with
.Fn TSHttpTxnDebugSet ,
.Fn TSHttpSsnDebugSet ,
.Fn TSHttpTxnDebugGet ,
and
.Fn TSHttpSsnDebugGet
to enable debugging on specific session and transaction objects.

.Sh EXAMPLES
.nf
#include <ts/ts.h>

// Emit debug message if "tag" is enabled or the txn debug flag is set.
TSDebugSpecifc(TSHttpTxnDebugGet(txn), "tag" ,
        "Hello World from transaction %p", txn);

.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts
.\" vim: set ts=4 sw=4 et :
