.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.Dd February 25, 2013
.Dt TSHttpTxnMilestoneGet 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME
.Nm TSHttpTxnMilestoneGet
.Nd Get a specified milestone timer value for the current transaction.
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h
.Ft "TSReturnCode"
.Fo TSHttpTxnMilestoneGet
.Fa "TSHttpTxn txnp"
.Fa "TSMilestonesType milestone"
.Fa "TSHRTime *time"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The TSHttpTxnMilestoneGet API will fetch a specific milestone timer value
for the current request (txnp). These timers are calculated during the lifetime
of a transaction, and are all in TSHRTime (nanosecons), meassured from the
beginning of the transaction. The time argument is a pointer to a valid
TSHRtime storage, and is set upon success.
.Pp
The supported TSMilestonesType milestone types are
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_READ_HEADER_DONE" -compact -offset indent
.It TS_MILESTONE_UA_BEGIN
.It TS_MILESTONE_UA_READ_HEADER_DONE
.It TS_MILESTONE_UA_BEGIN_WRITE
.It TS_MILESTONE_UA_CLOSE
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_FIRST_CONNECT
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_CONNECT
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_CONNECT_END
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_BEGIN_WRITE
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_FIRST_READ
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_READ_HEADER_DONE
.It TS_MILESTONE_SERVER_CLOSE
.It TS_MILESTONE_CACHE_OPEN_READ_BEGIN
.It TS_MILESTONE_CACHE_OPEN_READ_END
.It TS_MILESTONE_CACHE_OPEN_WRITE_BEGIN
.It TS_MILESTONE_CACHE_OPEN_WRITE_END
.It TS_MILESTONE_DNS_LOOKUP_BEGIN
.It TS_MILESTONE_DNS_LOOKUP_END
.It TS_MILESTONE_SM_START
.It TS_MILESTONE_SM_FINISH
.It TS_MILESTONE_LAST_ENTRY
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Success or error.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.nf
#include <ts/ts.h>
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts
