.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.Dd December 11, 2012
.Dt TSHttpHookAdd 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME
.Nm TSHttpHookAdd,
.Nm TSHttpSsnHookAdd,
.Nm TSHttpTxnHookAdd
.Nd intercept Traffic Server events
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSHttpHookAdd
.Fa "TSHttpHookID id"
.Fa "TSCont contp"
.Fc
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSHttpSsnHookAdd
.Fa "TSHttpSsn ssnp"
.Fa "TSHttpHookID id"
.Fa "TSCont contp"
.Fc
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSHttpTxnHookAdd
.Fa "TSHttpTxn txnp"
.Fa "TSHttpHookID id"
.Fa "TSCont contp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
Hooks are points in Traffic Server transaction processing where plugins
can step in and do some work. Registering a plugin function for
callback amounts to adding the function to a hook. You can register
your plugin to be called back for every single transaction, or for
specific transactions only.
.Pp
HTTP transaction hooks are set on a global basis using the function
.Fn TSHttpHookAdd .
This means that the continuation specified as the parameter to
.Fn TSHttpHookAdd
is called for every transaction.
.Fn TSHttpHookAdd
is typically called from
.Fn TSPluginInit
or
.Fn TSRemapInit .
.Pp
A session consists of a single client connection to Traffic Server.
A session can consist of several transactions in succession. The
session starts when the client connection opens, and ends when the
connection closes.
.Fn TSHttpSsnHookAdd
adds
.Fa contp
to the end of the list of HTTP transaction hooks specified by
.Fa id .
This means that
.Fa contp
is called back for every transaction within the session, at the
point specified by the hook ID. Since
.Fa contp
is added to a session, it is not possible to call
.Fn TSHttpSsnHookAdd
from the plugin initialization routine; the plugin needs a handle
to an HTTP session.

.Pp
A transaction consists of a single HTTP request from a client and
the response that Traffic Server sends to that client. A transaction
begins when Traffic Server receives a request, and ends when Traffic
Server sends the response.
.Fn TSHttpTxnHookAdd
adds
.Fa contp
to the end of the list of HTTP transaction hooks specified by
.Fa id .
Since
.Fa contp
is added to a transaction, it is not possible to call
.Fn TSHttpTxnHookAdd
from the plugin initialization routine but only when the plugin has
a handle to an HTTP transaction.

.Sh RETURN VALUES
None. Adding hooks is always successful.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.nf
#include <ts/ts.h>

static void
txn_handler (TSHttpTxn txnp, TSCont contp)
{
    //handle transaction
}

static void
handle_session (TSHttpSsn ssnp, TSCont contp)
{
    TSHttpSsnHookAdd (ssnp, TS_HTTP_TXN_START_HOOK, contp);
}

static int
ssn_handler (TSCont contp, TSEvent event, void *edata)
{
    TSHttpSsn ssnp;
    TSHttpTxn txnp;

    switch (event){
    case TS_EVENT_HTTP_SSN_START:
       ssnp = (TSHttpSsn) edata;
       handle_session (ssnp, contp);
       TSHttpSsnReenable (ssnp, TS_EVENT_HTTP_CONTINUE);
       return 0;
    case TS_EVENT_HTTP_TXN_START:
       txnp = (TSHttpTxn) edata;
       txn_handler (txnp, contp);
       TSHttpTxnReenable (txnp, TS_EVENT_HTTP_CONTINUE);
       return 0;
    default:
         break;
    }

    return 0;
}

void
TSPluginInit (int argc, const char *argv[])
{
    TSCont contp;
    contp = TSContCreate (ssn_handler, NULL);
    TSHttpHookAdd (TS_HTTP_SSN_START_HOOK, contp);
}
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts ,
.Xr TSContCreate 3ts
