.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.Dd January 25, 2013
.Dt TSIOBufferCreate 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME
.Nm TSIOBufferCreate,
.Nm TSIOBufferSizedCreate,
.Nm TSIOBufferDestroy,
.Nm TSIOBufferWrite,
.Nm TSIOBufferProduce,
.Nm TSIOBufferWaterMarkGet,
.Nm TSIOBufferWaterMarkSet
.Nd Traffic Server IO Buffer API
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h
.Ft "TSIOBuffer"
.Fo TSIOBufferCreate
.Fa "void"
.Fc
.Ft "TSIOBuffer"
.Fo TSIOBufferSizedCreate
.Fa "TSIOBufferSizeIndex index"
.Fc
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSIOBufferDestroy
.Fa "TSIOBuffer bufp"
.Fc
.Ft "int64_t"
.Fo TSIOBufferWrite
.Fa "TSIOBuffer bufp"
.Fa "const void* buf"
.Fa "int64_t length"
.Fc
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSIOBufferProduce
.Fa "TSIOBuffer bufp"
.Fa "int64_t nbytes"
.Fc
.Ft "int64_t"
.Fo TSIOBufferWaterMarkGet
.Fa "TSIOBuffer bufp"
.Fc
.Ft "void"
.Fo TSIOBufferWaterMarkSet
.Fa "TSIOBuffer bufp"
.Fa "int64_t water_mark"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
The TSIOBuffer data structure is the building block of the TSVConn
abstraction. An IO buffer is composed of a list of buffer blocks
which are reference counted so that they can reside in multiple
buffers at the same time. This makes it extremely efficient to copy
data from one IO buffer to another using TSIOBufferCopy since Traffic
Server only needs to copy pointers and adjust reference counts
appropriately and not actually copy any data; however applications
should still strive to ensure data blocks are a reasonable size.
.Pp
The IO buffer abstraction provides for a single writer and multiple
readers. In order for the readers to have no knowledge of each
other, they manipulate IO buffers through the TSIOBufferReader
data structure. Since only a single writer is allowed, there is no
corresponding TSIOBufferWriter data structure. The writer simply
modifies the IO buffer directly.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferCreate
creates an empty TSIOBuffer.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferSizedCreate
creates an empty TSIOBuffer with an initial capacity of
.Fa index
bytes.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferDestroy
destroys the IO buffer
.Fa bufp .
Since multiple IO buffers can share data, this does not necessarily free
all of the data associated with the IO buffer but simply decrements
the appropriate reference counts.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferWrite
appends
.Fa length
bytes
from the buffer
.Fa buf
to the IO buffer
.Fa bufp
and returns the number of bytes successfully written into the IO buffer.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferProduce
makes
.Fa nbytes
of data available for reading in the IO buffer
.Fa bufp .
A common pattern for writing to an IO buffer is to copy data into
a buffer block and then call INKIOBufferProduce to make the new
data visible to any readers.
.Pp
The watermark of an TSIOBuffer is the minimum number of bytes of
data that have to be in the buffer before calling back any continuation
that has initiated a read operation on this buffer.  As a writer
feeds data into the TSIOBuffer, no readers are called back until
the amount of data reaches the watermark. Setting a watermark can
improve performance because it avoids frequent callbacks to read
small amounts of data.
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferWaterMarkGet
gets the current watermark for the IO buffer
.Fa bufp .
.Pp
.Fn TSIOBufferWaterMarkSet
gets the current watermark for the IO buffer
.Fa bufp
to
.Fa water_mark
bytes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts ,
.Xr TSIOBufferReaderAlloc 3ts
