.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.Dd October 19, 2012
.Dt TSMalloc 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME

.Nm TSMalloc,
.Nm TSrealloc,
.Nm TSstrdup,
.Nm TSstrndup,
.Nm TSstrlcpy,
.Nm TSstrlcat,
.Nm TSfree
.Nd TrafficServer memory allocation APIs
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h

.Ft "void *"
.Fo TSmalloc
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fa "const char * path"
.Fc

.Ft "void *"
.Fo TSrealloc
.Fa "void * ptr"
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fa "const char * path"
.Fc

.Ft "char *"
.Fo TSstrdup
.Fa "const char * str"
.Fa "int64_t length"
.Fa "const char * path"
.Fc

.Ft size_t
.Fo TSstrlcpy
.Fa "char * dst"
.Fa "const char * src"
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fc

.Ft size_t
.Fo TSstrlcat
.Fa "char * dst"
.Fa "const char * src"
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fc

.Ft void
.Fo TSfree
.Fa "void * ptr"
.Fc

.Sh DESCRIPTION
Traffic Server provides a number of routines for allocating and freeing
memory. These routines correspond to similar routines in the C
library. For example, 
.Fn TSrealloc
behaves like the C library routine
.Fn realloc .
There are two reasons to use the routines provided by
Traffic Server. The first is portability. The Traffic Server API routines
behave the same on all of Traffic Server’s supported platforms. For
example,
.Fn realloc
does not accept an argument of NULL on some
platforms. The second reason is that the Traffic Server routines
actually track the memory allocations by file and line number. This
tracking is very efficient, is always turned on, and is useful for
tracking down memory leaks.

.Fn TSmalloc
returns a pointer to
.Fa size
bytes of memory allocated from the heap. Traffic Server uses 
.Fn TSmalloc
internally for memory allocations.
Always use 
.Fn TSfree
to release memory allocated by 
.Fn TSmalloc ; do not
use
.Fn free .

.Fn TSstrdup
returns a pointer to a new string that is a duplicate of the string
pointed to by
.Fa str .
The memory for the new string is allocated using
.Fn TSMalloc
and should be freed by a call to
.Fn TSfree .

.Fn TSstrndup
returns a pointer to a new string that is a duplicate of the string
pointed to by
.Fa str
and
.Fa length
bytes long. The new string will be
NULL-terminated. This API is very useful for transforming non NULL-terminated string values returned by APIs such as
.Fn TSMimeHdrFieldStringValueGet
into NULL-terminated string values. The memory for the new string is allocated using
.Fn TSmalloc and
should be freed by a call to
.Fn TSfree .

.Fn TSstrlcpy
copies up to
.Fa size
- 1 characters from the NULL-terminated string
.Fa src
to
.Fa dst ,
NULL-terminating the result.

.Fn TSstrlcat
appends the NULL-terminated string src to the end of dst. It will append at most
.Fa size
- strlen(dst) - 1 bytes, NULL-terminating the result.

.Fn TSfree
releases the memory allocated by
.Fn Tsmalloc
or
.Fn TSrealloc .
If
.Fa ptr
is NULL,
.Fn TSfree
does no operation.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts
.\" vim: set ts=4 sw=4 et :
