.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.Dd October 25, 2012
.Dt TSPluginInit 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME
.Nm TSPluginInit,
.Nm TSPluginRegister,
.Nd Traffic Server plugin loading and registration
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h
.Ft void
.Fo TSPluginInit
.Fa "int argc"
.Fa "const char* argv[]"
.Fc
.Ft TSReturnCode
.Fo TSPluginRegister
.Fa "TSSDKVersion sdk_version"
.Fa "TSPluginRegistrationInfo* plugin_info"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION

.Fn TSPluginInit
must be defined by all plugins. Traffic Server calls this initialization routine
when it loads the plugin and sets
.Fa argc
and
.Fa argv
appropriately based on the values in plugin.config.
.Fa argc
is a count of the number of arguments in the argument vector,
.Fa argv .
The count is at least one because the first argument in the argument vector is the plugin’s name, which must exist in order for the plugin to be loaded.
.Fa argv
is the vector of arguments. The number of arguments in the vector is
.Fa argc ,
and
.Fa argv[0]
always contains the name of the plugin shared library.

.Fn TSPluginRegister
registers the appropriate SDK version for your plugin. Use this function to
make sure that the version of Traffic Server on which your plugin is running
supports the plugin.

.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn TSPluginRegister
returns
.Fa TS_ERROR
if the plugin registration failed.

.Sh EXAMPLES
.nf
#include <ts/ts.h>

void
TSPluginInit (int argc, const char *argv[])
{
      TSPluginRegistrationInfo info;

      info.plugin_name = "hello-world";
      info.vendor_name = "MyCompany";
      info.support_email = "ts-api-support@MyCompany.com";

      if (TSPluginRegister (TS_SDK_VERSION_2_0 , &info) != TS_SUCCESS) {
         TSError ("Plugin registration failed. \n");
      }
}
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts ,
.Xr TSInstallDirGet 3ts
