.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.Dd December 22, 2011
.Dt TSTrafficServerVersionGet 3ts TSAPI
.Sh NAME
.Nm TSTrafficServerVersionGet,
.Nm TSTrafficServerVersionGetMajor,
.Nm TSTrafficServerVersionGetMinor,
.Nm TSTrafficServerVersionGetMajor
.Nd return TrafficServer version information
.Sh LIBRARY
Apache Traffic Server plugin API
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ts/ts.h
.Ft "const char *"
.Fo TSTrafficServerVersionGet
.Fa void
.Fc
.Ft "int"
.Fo TSTrafficServerVersionGetMajor
.Fa void
.Fc
.Ft "int"
.Fo TSTrafficServerVersionGetMinor
.Fa void
.Fc
.Ft "int"
.Fo TSTrafficServerVersionGetPatch
.Fa void
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn TSTrafficServerVersionGet
returns the string that indicates the release version of Traffic
Server running the plugin.
.Sh "RETURN VALUES"
.Fn TSTrafficServerVersionGet
returns a pointer to a string of characters that indicates the Traffic
Server release version. This string must not be modified.
.Pp
The other APIs return an integer version number.
.Sh EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <ts/ts.h>

int
check_ts_version()
{

    const char *ts_version = TSTrafficServerVersionGet();
    int result = 0;

    if (ts_version) {
        int major_ts_version = 0;
        int minor_ts_version = 0;
        int patch_ts_version = 0;

        if (sscanf(ts_version, "%d.%d.%d", &major_ts_version,
                &minor_ts_version, &patch_ts_version) != 3) {
          return 0;
        }

        /* We need at least Traffic Server 2.0 */

        if (major_ts_version >= 2) {
            result = 1;
        }

    }

    return result;
}

void
TSPluginInit (int argc, const char *argv[])
{
    TSPluginRegistrationInfo info;

    info.plugin_name = "hello-world";
    info.vendor_name = "MyCompany";
    info.support_email = "ts-api-support@MyCompany.com";

    if (TSPluginRegister(TS_SDK_VERSION_2_0 , &info) != TS_SUCCESS) {
        TSError("Plugin registration failed. \n");
    }

    if (!check_ts_version()) {
        TSError("Plugin requires Traffic Server 2.0 or later\n");
        return;
    }

    TSDebug("debug-hello", "Hello World!\n");
}
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr TSAPI 3ts
.\" vim: set ts=4 sw=4 et :
