doc/developer-guide/api/functions/TSHttpTxnServerAddrSet.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed
   with this work for additional information regarding copyright
   ownership.  The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache
   License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file
   except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
   the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
   implied.  See the License for the specific language governing
   permissions and limitations under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

.. default-domain:: c

TSHttpTxnServerAddrSet
**********************

Synopsis
========

`#include <ts/ts.h>`

.. function:: TSReturnCode TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet(TSHttpTxn txnp, struct sockaddr const* addr)

Description
===========

Set the origin server address for transaction :arg:`txnp`. This includes the port in :arg:`addr`.
The address family is also set by the contents of :arg:`addr`. The address data is copied out of
:arg:`addr` so there is no dependency on the lifetime of that object.

This hook must be called no later than TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK. If this is called then DNS resolution
will not be done as the address of the server is already know.

An error value is returned if :arg:`addr` does not contain a valid IPv4 or IPv6 address with a valid
(non-zero) port.

Commit message:

TS-4570: Return to TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK if server address is set.
Using HostDB, Traffic Server will try to connect to all the resolved
IP addresses if the connection fail. However if a plugin sets the
address using some out-of-band knowledge and TSHttpTxnServerAddrSet,
it onlt gets to set the address once.

This change returns the state machine to the OS_DNS_HOOK API callout
so that the plugin can have an opportunity to set a different server
address.

doc/developer-guide/api/functions/TSHttpTxnServerAddrSet.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed
   with this work for additional information regarding copyright
   ownership.  The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache
   License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file
   except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
   the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
   implied.  See the License for the specific language governing
   permissions and limitations under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

.. default-domain:: c

TSHttpTxnServerAddrSet
**********************

Synopsis
========

`#include <ts/ts.h>`

.. function:: TSReturnCode TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet(TSHttpTxn txnp, struct sockaddr const* addr)

Description
===========

Set the origin server address for transaction :arg:`txnp`. This includes the port in :arg:`addr`.
The address family is also set by the contents of :arg:`addr`. The address data is copied out of
:arg:`addr` so there is no dependency on the lifetime of that object.

This hook must be called no later than TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK. If this
is called prior to TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK, DNS resolution will not be
done as the address of the server is already known.

Return Value
============

:data:`TS_ERROR` is returned if :arg:`addr` does not contain a valid
IPv4 or IPv6 address with a valid (non-zero) port.

Notes
=====

If |TS| is configured to retry connections to origin servers and
:func:`TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet` has been called, |TS| will return
to TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK so to let the plugin set a different server
address. Plugins should be prepared for TS_HTTP_OS_DNS_HOOK and any
subsequent hooks to be called multiple times.

Once a plugin calls :func:`TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet` any prior DNS
resolution results are lost. The plugin should use
:func:`TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet` to preserve any DNS Results that
might need.

See Also
========

:manpage:`TSAPI(3ts)`,
:manpage:`TSHttpTxnServerAddrGet(3ts)`
