doc/admin-guide/installation/index.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../common.defs

.. _admin-installing:

Installing Traffic Server
*************************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

.. _admin-supported-platforms:

Supported Platforms
===================

.. _admin-traffic-server-versioning:

Traffic Server Versioning
=========================

Before you get started with Traffic Server you may have to decide which
version you want to use. Traffic Server follows the `Semantic Versioning
<http://semver.org>`_ guidelines.

A complete version number is made of a version-triplet: ``MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH``.

As of v4.0.0, there are no longer any development (or unstable) releases.
All releases are considered stable and ready for production use. Releases
within a major version are always upgrade compatible. More details are
available on the `New Release Processes
<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TS/Release+Process>`_ wiki
page.

Sometimes we speak of *trunk*, *master* or *HEAD*, all of which are used
interchangeably. Trunk and master, or sometimes TIP or HEAD, refer to the
latest code in a Git version control system (also referred to as a *repository*
or *Git repo*). Master is always kept releasable, and compatible with the
current major release version. Incompatible changes are sometimes committed on
a next-major release branch; for example, we have the ``5.0.x`` branch where
changes incompatible with 4.x are managed.

.. _admin-binary-distributions:

Binary Distributions
====================

.. _admin-build-from-source:

Building From Source
====================

.. _admin-retrieving-tarballs:

Retrieving Tarballs
-------------------

Compressed archives of the source code for |TS| are available on the official
website's `Downloads <https://trafficserver.apache.org/downloads>`_ page. From
there you may select the version most appropriate for your needs. The |TS|
project does not provide binary downloads.

.. _admin-cloning-from-version-control:

Cloning from Version Control
----------------------------

|TS| uses a `public Git repository <https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/trafficserver.git>`_
for version control. This repository will also provide the most cutting edge
source code if you wish to test out the latest features and bug fixes.

.. note::

    We do also have a `GitHub Mirror <https://github.com/apache/trafficserver>`_
    that you may use to submit pull requests. However, it may not be
    entirely up-to-date, and you should always refer to our official project
    Git repository for the very latest state of the source code.

.. _admin-build-dependencies:

Build Dependencies
------------------

In order to build Traffic Server from source you will need the following
development tools and libraries installed:

-  pkgconfig
-  libtool
-  gcc (>= 4.3 or clang > 3.0)
-  GNU make
-  openssl
-  tcl
-  expat
-  pcre
-  libcap
-  flex (for TPROXY)
-  hwloc
-  lua
-  curses (for :program:`traffic_top`)
-  curl (for :program:`traffic_top`)

If you're building from a git clone, you'll also need:

-  git
-  autoconf
-  automake

.. _admin-layouts:

Layouts
-------

.. _admin-preparing-the-source-tree:

Preparing the Source Tree
-------------------------

If you are buiding from a checkout of the Git repository, you will need to
prepare the source tree by regenerating the configuration scripts. This is
performed by running::

    autoreconf -if

At the base directory of your local clone.

.. _admin-configuration-options:

Configuration Options
---------------------

|TS| uses the standard ``configure`` script method of configuring the source
tree for building. A full list of available options may always be obtained by
running the following in the base directory of your unpackaged archive or Git
working copy::

    ./configure --help

#. A ``configure`` script will be generated from ``configure.ac`` which may now
   be used to configure the source tree for your build. ::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats

   By default, Traffic Server will be built to use the ``nobody`` user and group.
   You may change this with the ``--with-user`` argument to ``configure``::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-user=tserver

   If dependencies are not in standard paths (``/usr/local`` or ``/usr``),
   you may need to pass options to ``configure`` to account for that::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-lua=/opt/csw

   Most ``configure`` path-options accept a format of "*INCLUDE_PATH*:*LIBRARY_PATH*"::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-pcre=/opt/csw/include:/opt/csw/lib/amd64

#. Once the source tree has been configured, you may proceed on to building with
   the generated Makefiles. The ``make check`` command may be used to perform
   sanity checks on the resulting build, prior to installation, and it is
   recommended that you use this. ::

    make
    make check

#. With the source built and checked, you may now install all of the binaries,
   header files, documentation, and other artifacts to their final locations on
   your system. ::

    sudo make install

#. Finally, it is recommended that you run the regression test suite. Please note
   that the regression tests will only be successful with the default layout. ::

    cd /opt/ats
    sudo bin/traffic_server -R 1

.. _admin-adding-spdy-support:

Adding SPDY Support
-------------------

Traffic Server v5.0.x and above are capable of supporting SPDY, but it is
optional and must be explicitly configured during the build process.

#. Clone the spdylay Git repository from tatsuhiro. ::

    git clone https://github.com/tatsuhiro-t/spdylay

#. Generate fresh configure scripts. ::

    autoreconf -if

#. Run the generated configuration script, choosing an installation location
   for the overlay. ::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/spdylay

#. Build and install the overlay. ::

    make install

#. Set the ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` enviroment variable to the appropriate path
   in your newly-installed overlay directory. ::

    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/spdylay/lib/pkgconfig/

#. Finally, you may proceed with the regular building of |TS| from source, with
   the addition of a single new configuration option to enable SPDY support in
   the produced binaries. ::

    ./configure --enable-spdy

.. _start-traffic-server:

Start Traffic Server
====================

To start Traffic Server manually, issue the ``trafficserver`` command,
passing in the subcommand ``start``. This command starts all the
processes that work together to process Traffic Server requests as well
as manage, control, and monitor the health of the Traffic Server system. ::

   bin/trafficserver start


The :program:`traffic_ctl` provides a quick way of viewing Traffic Server statistics
and configuring the Traffic Server system via a command-line interface.

:program:`traffic_ctl` commands take the following form::

     bin/traffic_ctl COMMAND COMMAND ...

For a list of :program:`traffic_ctl` commands, enter::

     bin/traffic_ctl

Please note that :program:`traffic_ctl`, while a fine tool for administrators,
is a poor choice for automation, especially that of monitoring. See our chapter
on :ref:`monitoring <admin-monitoring>` for how to do that more efficiently and
effectively.

.. _stop-traffic-server:

Stop Traffic Server
===================

To stop Traffic Server, always use the :program:`trafficserver` command,
passing in the attribute ``stop``. This command stops all the Traffic
Server processes (:program:`traffic_manager`, :program:`traffic_server`, and
:program:`traffic_cop`). Do not manually stop processes, as this can lead to
unpredictable results. ::

    bin/trafficserver stop

Commit message:

TS-4359 Deprecate the SPDY feature
This marks the configuration options for SPDY as deprecated, as well
as the help text for the SPDY option in configure.ac.

doc/admin-guide/installation/index.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../common.defs

.. _admin-installing:

Installing Traffic Server
*************************

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

.. _admin-supported-platforms:

Supported Platforms
===================

.. _admin-traffic-server-versioning:

Traffic Server Versioning
=========================

Before you get started with Traffic Server you may have to decide which
version you want to use. Traffic Server follows the `Semantic Versioning
<http://semver.org>`_ guidelines.

A complete version number is made of a version-triplet: ``MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH``.

As of v4.0.0, there are no longer any development (or unstable) releases.
All releases are considered stable and ready for production use. Releases
within a major version are always upgrade compatible. More details are
available on the `New Release Processes
<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TS/Release+Process>`_ wiki
page.

Sometimes we speak of *trunk*, *master* or *HEAD*, all of which are used
interchangeably. Trunk and master, or sometimes TIP or HEAD, refer to the
latest code in a Git version control system (also referred to as a *repository*
or *Git repo*). Master is always kept releasable, and compatible with the
current major release version. Incompatible changes are sometimes committed on
a next-major release branch; for example, we have the ``5.0.x`` branch where
changes incompatible with 4.x are managed.

.. _admin-binary-distributions:

Binary Distributions
====================

.. _admin-build-from-source:

Building From Source
====================

.. _admin-retrieving-tarballs:

Retrieving Tarballs
-------------------

Compressed archives of the source code for |TS| are available on the official
website's `Downloads <https://trafficserver.apache.org/downloads>`_ page. From
there you may select the version most appropriate for your needs. The |TS|
project does not provide binary downloads.

.. _admin-cloning-from-version-control:

Cloning from Version Control
----------------------------

|TS| uses a `public Git repository <https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/trafficserver.git>`_
for version control. This repository will also provide the most cutting edge
source code if you wish to test out the latest features and bug fixes.

.. note::

    We do also have a `GitHub Mirror <https://github.com/apache/trafficserver>`_
    that you may use to submit pull requests. However, it may not be
    entirely up-to-date, and you should always refer to our official project
    Git repository for the very latest state of the source code.

.. _admin-build-dependencies:

Build Dependencies
------------------

In order to build Traffic Server from source you will need the following
development tools and libraries installed:

-  pkgconfig
-  libtool
-  gcc (>= 4.3 or clang > 3.0)
-  GNU make
-  openssl
-  tcl
-  expat
-  pcre
-  libcap
-  flex (for TPROXY)
-  hwloc
-  lua
-  curses (for :program:`traffic_top`)
-  curl (for :program:`traffic_top`)

If you're building from a git clone, you'll also need:

-  git
-  autoconf
-  automake

.. _admin-layouts:

Layouts
-------

.. _admin-preparing-the-source-tree:

Preparing the Source Tree
-------------------------

If you are buiding from a checkout of the Git repository, you will need to
prepare the source tree by regenerating the configuration scripts. This is
performed by running::

    autoreconf -if

At the base directory of your local clone.

.. _admin-configuration-options:

Configuration Options
---------------------

|TS| uses the standard ``configure`` script method of configuring the source
tree for building. A full list of available options may always be obtained by
running the following in the base directory of your unpackaged archive or Git
working copy::

    ./configure --help

#. A ``configure`` script will be generated from ``configure.ac`` which may now
   be used to configure the source tree for your build. ::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats

   By default, Traffic Server will be built to use the ``nobody`` user and group.
   You may change this with the ``--with-user`` argument to ``configure``::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-user=tserver

   If dependencies are not in standard paths (``/usr/local`` or ``/usr``),
   you may need to pass options to ``configure`` to account for that::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-lua=/opt/csw

   Most ``configure`` path-options accept a format of "*INCLUDE_PATH*:*LIBRARY_PATH*"::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/ats --with-pcre=/opt/csw/include:/opt/csw/lib/amd64

#. Once the source tree has been configured, you may proceed on to building with
   the generated Makefiles. The ``make check`` command may be used to perform
   sanity checks on the resulting build, prior to installation, and it is
   recommended that you use this. ::

    make
    make check

#. With the source built and checked, you may now install all of the binaries,
   header files, documentation, and other artifacts to their final locations on
   your system. ::

    sudo make install

#. Finally, it is recommended that you run the regression test suite. Please note
   that the regression tests will only be successful with the default layout. ::

    cd /opt/ats
    sudo bin/traffic_server -R 1

.. _admin-adding-spdy-support:

Adding SPDY Support
-------------------

Traffic Server v5.0.x and above are capable of supporting SPDY, but it is
optional and must be explicitly configured during the build process. The
support of SPDY is deprecated as of ATS v6.2.0, and will be removed in
v7.0.0.

#. Clone the spdylay Git repository from tatsuhiro. ::

    git clone https://github.com/tatsuhiro-t/spdylay

#. Generate fresh configure scripts. ::

    autoreconf -if

#. Run the generated configuration script, choosing an installation location
   for the overlay. ::

    ./configure --prefix=/opt/spdylay

#. Build and install the overlay. ::

    make install

#. Set the ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` enviroment variable to the appropriate path
   in your newly-installed overlay directory. ::

    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/spdylay/lib/pkgconfig/

#. Finally, you may proceed with the regular building of |TS| from source, with
   the addition of a single new configuration option to enable SPDY support in
   the produced binaries. ::

    ./configure --enable-spdy

.. _start-traffic-server:

Start Traffic Server
====================

To start Traffic Server manually, issue the ``trafficserver`` command,
passing in the subcommand ``start``. This command starts all the
processes that work together to process Traffic Server requests as well
as manage, control, and monitor the health of the Traffic Server system. ::

   bin/trafficserver start


The :program:`traffic_ctl` provides a quick way of viewing Traffic Server statistics
and configuring the Traffic Server system via a command-line interface.

:program:`traffic_ctl` commands take the following form::

     bin/traffic_ctl COMMAND COMMAND ...

For a list of :program:`traffic_ctl` commands, enter::

     bin/traffic_ctl

Please note that :program:`traffic_ctl`, while a fine tool for administrators,
is a poor choice for automation, especially that of monitoring. See our chapter
on :ref:`monitoring <admin-monitoring>` for how to do that more efficiently and
effectively.

.. _stop-traffic-server:

Stop Traffic Server
===================

To stop Traffic Server, always use the :program:`trafficserver` command,
passing in the attribute ``stop``. This command stops all the Traffic
Server processes (:program:`traffic_manager`, :program:`traffic_server`, and
:program:`traffic_cop`). Do not manually stop processes, as this can lead to
unpredictable results. ::

    bin/trafficserver stop
