doc/admin-guide/monitoring/logging/log-collation.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

Log Collation
*************

You can use the |TS| log file collation feature to collect all logged
information in one place. Log collation enables you to analyze a set of |TS|
clustered nodes as a whole (rather than as individual nodes) and to use a large
disk that might only be located on one of the nodes in the cluster.

|TS| collates log files by using one or more nodes as log collation servers and
all remaining nodes as log collation clients. When a |TS| node generates a
buffer of event log entries, it first determines if it is the collation server
or a collation client. The collation server node writes all log buffers to its
local disk, just as it would if log collation was not enabled.  Log collation
servers can be part of a node running |TS|.

The collation client nodes prepare their log buffers for transfer across the
network and send the buffers to the log collation server. When the log
collation server receives a log buffer from a client, it writes it to its own
log file as if it was generated locally. For a visual representation of this,
see the figure below.

.. figure:: /static/images/admin/logcolat.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Log collation

   Log collation

If log clients cannot contact their log collation server, then they write their
log buffers to their local disks, into *orphan* log files. Orphaned log files
require manual collation.

.. note::

    Log collation can have an impact on network performance. Because all nodes
    are forwarding their log data buffers to the single collation server, a
    bottleneck can occur. In addition, collated log files contain timestamp
    information for each entry, but entries in the files do not appear in
    strict chronological order. You may want to sort collated log files before
    doing analysis.

.. _admin-configuring-traffic-server-to-be-a-collation-server:

Server Configuration
====================

To configure a |TS| node to be a collation server, perform the following
configuration adjustments in :file:`records.config`:

#. Set :ts:cv:`proxy.local.log.collation_mode` to ``1`` to indicate this node
   will be a server. ::

        CONFIG proxy.local.log.collation_mode INT 1

#. Configure the port on which the server will listen to incoming collation
   transfers from clients, using :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_port`. If
   omitted, this defaults to port ``8085``. ::

        CONFIG proxy.config.log.collation_port INT 8085

#. Configure the shared secret used by collation clients to authenticate their
   sessions, using :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_secret`. ::

        CONFIG proxy.config.log.collation_secret STRING "seekrit"

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to apply the configuration
   changes.

.. note::

    If you modify the ``collation_port`` or ``secret`` after connections
    between the collation server and collation clients have been established,
    then you must restart Traffic Server on all nodes.

.. _admin-monitoring-logging-collation-client:

Client Configuration
====================

To configure a |TS| node to be a collation client, follow the steps below. If
you modify the ``collation_port`` or ``secret`` after connections between the
collation clients and the collation server have been established, then you must
restart |TS|.

#. In the :file:`records.config` file, edit the following variables:

   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.local.log.collation_mode`: ``2`` to configure this node as
      log collation client and sen standard formatted log entries to the
      collation server. For XML-based formatted log entries, see
      :file:`logging.config` file.
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_host`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_port`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_secret`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_host_tagged`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.max_space_mb_for_orphan_logs`

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to apply the configuration
   changes.

Collating Custom Logs
=====================

If you use custom event log files, then you must edit :file:`logging.config`,
in addition to configuring a collation server and collation clients.

To collate custom event log files:

#. On each collation client, edit :file:`logging.config` and add the
   :ref:`CollationHosts <logs-xml-logobject-collationhost>` attribute to the
   :ref:`LogObject` specification::

       <LogObject>
         <Format = "squid"/>
         <Filename = "squid"/>
         <CollationHosts="ipaddress:port"/>
       </LogObject>

   Where ``ipaddress`` is the hostname or IP address of the collation
   server to which all log entries (for this object) are forwarded, and
   ``port`` is the port number for communication between the collation
   server and collation clients.

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to restart Traffic Server on the
   local node or :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to restart Traffic Server on all
   the nodes in a cluster.

Commit message:

TS-4738: docs: add new logging.config documentation (including updates to scattered references), and remove all mentions of logs_xml.config

doc/admin-guide/monitoring/logging/log-collation.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../../common.defs

.. _admin-monitoring-logging-log-collation:

Log Collation
*************

You can use the |TS| log file collation feature to collect all logged
information in one place. Log collation enables you to analyze a set of |TS|
clustered nodes as a whole (rather than as individual nodes) and to use a large
disk that might only be located on one of the nodes in the cluster.

|TS| collates log files by using one or more nodes as log collation servers and
all remaining nodes as log collation clients. When a |TS| node generates a
buffer of event log entries, it first determines if it is the collation server
or a collation client. The collation server node writes all log buffers to its
local disk, just as it would if log collation was not enabled.  Log collation
servers can be part of a node running |TS|.

The collation client nodes prepare their log buffers for transfer across the
network and send the buffers to the log collation server. When the log
collation server receives a log buffer from a client, it writes it to its own
log file as if it was generated locally. For a visual representation of this,
see the figure below.

.. figure:: /static/images/admin/logcolat.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Log collation

   Log collation

If log clients cannot contact their log collation server, then they write their
log buffers to their local disks, into *orphan* log files. Orphaned log files
require manual collation.

.. note::

    Log collation can have an impact on network performance. Because all nodes
    are forwarding their log data buffers to the single collation server, a
    bottleneck can occur. In addition, collated log files contain timestamp
    information for each entry, but entries in the files do not appear in
    strict chronological order. You may want to sort collated log files before
    doing analysis.

.. _admin-configuring-traffic-server-to-be-a-collation-server:

Server Configuration
====================

To configure a |TS| node to be a collation server, perform the following
configuration adjustments in :file:`records.config`:

#. Set :ts:cv:`proxy.local.log.collation_mode` to ``1`` to indicate this node
   will be a server. ::

        CONFIG proxy.local.log.collation_mode INT 1

#. Configure the port on which the server will listen to incoming collation
   transfers from clients, using :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_port`. If
   omitted, this defaults to port ``8085``. ::

        CONFIG proxy.config.log.collation_port INT 8085

#. Configure the shared secret used by collation clients to authenticate their
   sessions, using :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_secret`. ::

        CONFIG proxy.config.log.collation_secret STRING "seekrit"

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to apply the configuration
   changes.

.. note::

    If you modify the ``collation_port`` or ``secret`` after connections
    between the collation server and collation clients have been established,
    then you must restart Traffic Server on all nodes.

.. _admin-monitoring-logging-collation-client:

Client Configuration
====================

To configure a |TS| node to be a collation client, follow the steps below. If
you modify the ``collation_port`` or ``secret`` after connections between the
collation clients and the collation server have been established, then you must
restart |TS|.

#. In the :file:`records.config` file, edit the following variables:

   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.local.log.collation_mode`: ``2`` to configure this node as
      log collation client and send standard formatted log entries to the
      collation server. For custom log entries, see :file:`logging.config`.
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_host`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_port`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_secret`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.collation_host_tagged`
   -  :ts:cv:`proxy.config.log.max_space_mb_for_orphan_logs`

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to apply the configuration
   changes.

Collating Custom Logs
=====================

If you use custom event log files, then you must edit :file:`logging.config`,
in addition to configuring a collation server and collation clients.

To collate custom event log files:

#. On each collation client, edit :file:`logging.config` and add the
   ``CollationHosts`` attribute to the relevant logs. For example, adding two
   collation hosts to an ASCII log that uses the Squid format would look like:

   .. code:: lua

      log.ascii {
        Format = squid,
        Filename = 'squid',
        CollationHosts = { '192.168.1.100:4567', '192.168.1.101:4567' }
      }

#. Run the command :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to restart Traffic Server on the
   local node or :option:`traffic_ctl config reload` to restart Traffic Server on all
   the nodes in a cluster.
