.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:wmt"
.SH NAME
config:wmt \- Configures Windows Media Technology protocol caching.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:wmt [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:wmt command enables you to configure Windows Media Technology protocol caching 
through a variety of options. 
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:wmt command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the proxying of Windows Media Technology content.
.SS "port <portno>"
Specifies the port number for WMT.
.SS "proxy-only <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) whether WMT should be handled in proxy-only mode.
.SS "prebuffering <milli seconds>"
Specifies prebuffering in milliseconds.
.SS "prebuffering-tcp <milli seconds>"
Specifies prebuffering for TCP, in milliseconds.
.SS "loadhost <string>"
Specifies the loadlost name.
.SS "loadpath <string>"
Specifies the loadhost path.
.SS "chunksize <seconds>"
Specifies the chunksize in seconds.
.SS "old-asx-behavior <seconds>"
Specifies the old ASX behavior in seconds.
.SS "debug <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) WMT debug.
.SS "asx-rewrite <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) ASX rewrite.
.SS "redirect <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) redirect.
.SS "rexmit-window <integer>"
Specifes the rexmit window.
.SS "monitor-version <version number>"
Specifies the monitor version number.
.SS "monitor-livehosts <string>"
Specifies the monitor livehost names.
.SS "monitor-name <string>"
Specifies the monitor name.
.SS "monitor-port <portno>"
Specifies the monitor port number.
.SS "media-bridge-name <string>"
Specifies the Media Bridge name.
.SS "media-bridge-port <portno>"
Specifies the Media Bridge port number.
.SS "media-bridge-mount <string>"
Specifies the Media Bridge mount point.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling WMT"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:wmt status on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the WMT port number"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:wmt port 1755
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:wmt
