.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:rni"
.SH NAME
config:rni \- Configures Real Networks protocol caching.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:rni [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:rni command enables you to configure Real Networks protocol caching 
through a variety of options. 
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:rni command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the Real Networks protocol.
.SS "verbosity <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the Real Networks verbosity feature.
.SS "cache-port  <portno>"
Specifies the cache port used by Real Networks.
.SS "watcher-enabled <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the Real Networks watcher feature.
.SS "control-port <portno>"
Specifies the Real Networks control port.
.SS "proxy-port <portno>"
Specifies the Real Networks proxy port.
.SS "pid-path <string>"
Specifies the Real Networks PID path.
.SS "restart-cmd <need info>"
Specifies the restart command.
.SS "restart-interval <integer>"
Specifies the restart interval.
.SS "service-name <string>"
Specifies the service name.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling Real Networks verbosity."
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:rni verbosity on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the proxy port number"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:rni proxy-port 9231
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:rni
