.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:ftp"
.SH NAME
config:ftp \- Configures FTP caching, mode, and control.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:ftp [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:ftp command enables you to configure FTP caching and control through 
a variety of options. You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:ftp command:
.SS "mode <pasv-port | pasv | port>"
Specifies the FTP connection mode. The options are PASV then PORT, PASV only, 
and PORT only. (The default value is PASV then PORT.)
.SS "inactive-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies how long the proxy waits for a response from the FTP server. (The 
default is 300 seconds.)
.SS "anonymous-password <password>"
Specifies the anonymous password for FTP servers that require a password for 
access. The anonymous password can be in cleartext.
.SS "expire-after <seconds>"
Specifies the maximum amount of time in seconds that an FTP document can stay in the proxy 
cache. (The default value is 259200.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying the PASV then PORT FTP connection mode"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ftp mode pasv-port
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying duration proxy waits for FTP server"
.SS "           response"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ftp inactive-timeout 500
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying anonymous password for FTP servers"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ftp anonymous-password admin@
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying maximum time that an FTP document"
.SS "           can stay in the proxy cache"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ftp expire-after 50000
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:ftp, show:ftp-stats
