.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:upgrade"
.SH NAME
config:upgrade \- Perform an over-the-wire software upgrade.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:upgrade <upgrade-type> <url> [username] [password]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:upgrade command to perform over-the-wire software upgrades.
This command supports three types of upgrades: silent, interactive, and reinstall.
When you use this command, you must specify an upgrade server URL, 
and optionally specify a username and password.  This command requires root privileges.
Use the config:root command to switch to root user.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are required for the config:upgrade command:
.SS "<silent | interactive | reinstall>"
Silent upgrade automatically chooses the appropriate upgrade from the upgrade server.
Interactive upgrade allows you to choose the upgrade package from a list.
Reinstall allows you to install an older version of software with default 
configuration settings.
.SS "<url>"
Specifies the URL which is the location of the upgrade files on a remote
server.If the URL is for HTTP or HTTPS, then username and password are optional.
.SS "<username>"
Specifies the username that is used to access the URL on the remote server.
.SS "<password>"
Specifies the password that is used to access the URL on the remote server. 
If a username is specified, but the password is omitted, then the config:upgrade command
will prompt you to enter a password.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Perform a silent upgrade"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:upgrade silent http://upgradeserver.domain.com user password
(Upgrade command status messages)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:root
