.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:ntlm"
.SH NAME
config:ntlm \- Configures NTLM access control.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:ntlm [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:ntlm command enables you to configure NTLM access control
through a variety of options. You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:ntlm command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the proxy from serving NTLM requests.
.SS "domain-controller <string>"
Specifies the comma separated list of domain controller hostnames.
.SS "nt-domain <string>"
Specifies the NT domain name that the proxy should authenticate against.
.SS "load-balancing <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the load balancing of requests to domain controllers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the proxy to serve NTLM requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ntlm status on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying multiple domain controllers"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ntlm domain-controller "machine1.example.com, machine2.example.com"
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:ntlm, show:ntlm-stats
