.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:parent"
.SH NAME
config:parent \- Configure parent proxy caching.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:parent [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:parent command to enable HTTP parent caching, specify a 
parent cache, and indicate where the proxy should locate the parent.config file, 
which contains specific parent cache configuration information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:parent command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the HTTP parent caching option. (The default 
value is off.)
.SS "name <parent>"
Specifies the parent cache. (The default value is NULL.)
.SS "rules <url>"
Specifies from which location (URL) the proxy should retrieve and install your 
parent.config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling HTTP parent caching"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:parent status on 
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the parent cache"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:parent name www.example.com
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Locating the access file to specify administrators"
.SS "           with access to the Traffic Manager UI"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:parent rules http://somedomain.com/path/parent.config 
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:parent
