.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:logging"
.SH NAME
config:logging \- Enables and configures logging parameters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:logging [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the config:logging command to enable and configure logging. Use the 
config:logging command to specify format, type, storage, splitting, rolling, and 
other parameters. When you execute the config:logging command, you must use one 
of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:logging command:
.SS "event <enabled | trans-only | error-only | disabled>"
Enables and disables event logging. Type trans-only to log only transactions. 
Type error-only to log only errors. Type enabled to enable full logging that 
includes errors and transactions. Type disabled to disable logging completely. 
(The default value is enabled.)
.SS "mgmt-directory <dir>"
Specifies the full path to the logging directory. (The default is 
/home/inktomi/5.0.0/logs.)
.SS "space-limit <mb>"
Specifies the amount of space allocated to the logging directory in MB. (The 
default value is 2000MB.)
.SS "space-headroom <mb>"
Specifies the tolerance for the log space limit.(The default value is 10MB.)
.SS "collation-status <inactive | host | send-standard | send-custom | send-all>"
Specifies the log collation mode. Type inactive to disable collation. Type host 
to specify the local host as a collation server. Type send-standard to specify 
the local host as collation client that sends entries using standard formats to 
the collation server. Type send-custom to specify this host as a collation 
client that sends entries using the traditional custom formats to the collation 
server. Type send-all to specify this host as a collation client that sends 
entries that use both the standard and traditional custom formats to the 
collation server. (The default value is inactive.)
.SS "collation-host <host>"
Specifies the hostname of the log collation server. (The default value is NULL.)
.SS "collation secret <secret> tagged <on | off> orphan-limit <orphan>"
Specifies the password used to validate logging data and prevent the exchange of 
unauthorized information when a collation server is being used. (The default 
value is foobar.)
Specifies the tagged option in log entry. When enabled (on), configures Traffic Server to include the hostname of the collation client that generated the log entry in each entry. (The default value is off.)
Specifies the storage limit for orphan files in MB. (The default value is 
25.)
.SS "format <squid | netscape-common | netscape-ext | netscape-ext2> <on|off> type <ascii | binary> file <file> header <header>"
Specifies which logging formats you want on/off. Also specifies the log file 
type (ASCII or binary), file name, and header text. The default log file format 
(on) is the Squid format. The default values for all formats are as follows:
.PP
.nf
Squid Format ----------------------------- on
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ squid
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL

Netscape Common -------------------------- off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ common
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL

Netscape Extended ------------------------ off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ extended
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL

Netscape Extended2 ----------------------- off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name   ---------------------------- extended2
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL

.SS "splitting <icp | http> <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) log splitting for ICP, and HTTP. When 
enabled, the proxy stores the transactions for the protocol you choose in a 
separate log file. (The default value is off for ICP and HTTP.)
.SS"custom <on | off> format <traditional | xml>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) custom logging. When you enable custom logging, 
you must specify the format, traditional or XML. (The default values are off for 
custom logging and traditional for format.)
.SS "rolling <on | off> offset <hour> interval <num-hours> auto-delete <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) log file rolling. (The default value is on.)
The offset <hour> parameter specifies the hour of the day that starts the log 
rolling period. (The default value is 0.) The interval <num-hours> parameter 
specifies the log file rolling interval. (The default value is 86400 seconds.)  
The auto-delete <on | off> parameter enables (on) or disables (off) the 
automatic deletion of rolled log files. (The default value is on.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling error and transaction logging"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging event enabled
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the full path to the logging directory"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging mgmt-directory /home/inktomi/rc4/logs
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying logging directory storage allocation (MB)"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging space-limit 10
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying the tolerance for the log space limit"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging space-headroom 100
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 5. Configuring the host to send entries using the "
.SS "           traditional custom formats to the collation server"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging collation-status send-custom
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 6. Specifying the hostname (jupiter) of the log"
.SS "           collation server"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging collation-host jupiter
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 7. Specifying the password used to validate logging"
.SS "           data, configuring logging to include the hostname"
.SS "           of the collation, and specifying 10MB as the "
.SS "           storage limit for orphan files"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging collation secret foobar tagged on orphan-limit 10
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 8. Enabling the Squid logging format, and specifying"
.SS "           the ASCII file type and squid.log file name"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:log format squid on type ascii file squid.log
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 9. Enabling custom XML logging"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging custom on format xml
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 10. Enabling log rolling, to begin rolling at "
.SS "            midnight, with an interval of 60 seconds and"
.SS "            no automatic deletion of rolled files"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:logging rolling on offset 0 interval 1 auto-delete off
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:logging, show:logging-stats
