.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:http"
.SH NAME
config:http \- Configures HTTP caching.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:http [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:http command enables you to configure HTTP caching through a variety of options. 
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:http command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the proxy from serving HTTP requests.
.SS "keep-alive-timeout-in <seconds>"
Specifies the keep-alive timeout for inbound connections.
.SS "keep-alive-timeout-out <seconds>"
Specifies the keep-alive timeout for outbound connections.
.SS "inactive-timeout-in <seconds>"
Specifies the inactivity timeout for inbound connections.
.SS "inactive-timeout-out <seconds>"
Specifies the inactivity timeout for outbound connections.
.SS "active-timeout-in <seconds>"
Specifies the active timeout for inbound connections.
.SS "active-timeout-out <seconds>"
Specifies the active timeout for outbound connections.
.SS "remove-from <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the removal of the From header from HTTP requests.
.SS "remove-referer <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the removal of the Referer header from HTTP requests.
.SS "remove-user <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the removal of the User header from HTTP requests.
.SS "remove-cookie <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the removal of the Cookie header from HTTP requests.
.SS "remove-header <string>"
Specifies the name of a header to remove from HTTP requests.
.SS "insert-ip <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the insertion of the client IP address into HTTP requests.
.SS "remove-ip <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the removal of the client IP address from HTTP requests.
.SS "proxy <fwd | rev | fwd-rev>"
Specifies HTTP proxying in forward, reverse, or forward and reverse simultaneously.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the proxy to serve HTTP requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:http on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the keep-alive tiemout for inbound requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:http keep-alive-timeout-in 10
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying removal of the From header from HTTP requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:http remove-from on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying forward proxy mode for HTTP"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:http fwd
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:http, show:http-stats, show:http-trans-stats
