.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:radius"
.SH NAME
config:radius \- Configures Radius access control.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:radius [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:radius command enables you to configure Radius access control
through a variety of options. You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:radius command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the proxy from serving Radius requests.
.SS "primary-hostname <string>"
Specifies the hostname of the primary Radius server.
.SS "primary-port <integer>"
Specifies the port number of the primary Radius server.
.SS "primary-key"
Specifies the key to use for encoding. Traffic Shell will prompt the
user to enter the new key twice before accepting the new key.
.SS "secondary-hostname <string>"
Specifies the hostname of the secondary Radius server.
.SS "secondary-port <integer>"
Specifies the port number of the secondary Radius server.
.SS "secondary-key"
Specifies the key to use for encoding. Traffic Shell will prompt the
user to enter the new key twice before accepting the new key.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the proxy to serve Radius requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:radius status on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the primary Radius server hostname"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:radius primary-hostname machine1.example.com
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:radius

