.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:filter"
.SH NAME
config:filter \- Specifies filter.config file location.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:filter [url]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the config:filter command to specify from which location (URL) the proxy 
should retrieve and install your filter.config file.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported for the config:filter command:
.SS "<url>"
Specifies the URL where the proxy locates your filter.config file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.SS "Specifying the location of your filter.config file"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:filter http://somedomain.com/path/filter.config
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:filter
