.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:port-tunnels"
.SH NAME
config:port-tunnels \- Configures port tunnels.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:port-tunnels [server-other-ports]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the config:port-tunnels command to specify a port for the proxy to use for 
tunneling.
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is supported for the config:port-tunnels command:
.SS "server-other-ports <port>"
Specifies a port for tunneling. (The default value is NULL.)
.SH EXAMPLE
.SS "Specifying a port for the proxy to use for tunneling"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:port-tunnels server-other-ports 5678
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:port-tunnels, show:remap
