.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:virtual-ip"
.SH NAME
config:virtual-ip \- Enables and configures virtual IP addressing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:virtual-ip [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:virtual-ip command to enable and configure virtual IP 
addressing, including IP address, device, and subinterface.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:virtual-ip command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the virtual IP option. (The default value is 
off.)
.SS "list"
List the virtual IP addresses in use.
.SS "add <ip_address> device <string> sub-intf <integer>"
Specifies IP address, device and subinterface.
.SS "delete <integer>"
Specified Virtual IP address element to be deleted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the virtual IP option"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:virtual-ip on 
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Specifying an IP address, device, and subinterface"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:virtual-ip add ip 202.112.105.89 device hme0 sub-intf 28
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 3. Deleting a virtual IP address."
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:virtual-ip delete 1
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:virtual-ip
