.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:reset-stats"

.SH NAME

config:reset-stats \- Resets all statistics.

.SH SYNOPSIS

config:reset-stats

.SH DESCRIPTION

The config:reset-stats command resets all statistics. (See the "See Also" 
section below for a list of commands that display statistics.) The config:reset-
stats command takes no options. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP

When you execute the config:reset-stats command, you see results in the 
following format:

.TP
ts_shell>config:reset-stats
  +OK
ts_shell>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:cache-stats, show:dns-stats, show:hostdb-stats, show:http-stats, 
show:proxy-stats, show:http-trans-stats, show:icp-stats, show:logging-stats
