.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:clock"
.SH NAME
config:clock \- Configure system clock settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:clock [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:clock command specify system date, time, and timezone settings.
A full restart of proxy software occurs when these changes take place.  This command
requires root privileges, see config:root command.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:clock command:
.SS "date <mm/dd/yyyy>"
Specifies the month, day, and year.
.SS "time <hh:mm:ss>"
Specifies the hour, minute, and seconds values in the local time zone.  The hour value
is in 24-hour format.
.SS "timezone <number from list | list>"
List the available timezones, or specify the timezone from the numbered list.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying system date"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:clock date 
DATE: 10/14/2001
traffic_shell> config:clock date 10/15/2001
(Stopping Proxy Software)
Changing Date
(Starting Proxy Software)
DATE: 10/15/2001
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Listing available timezones"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:clock timezone list
0   Africa/Abidjan
1   Africa/Accra
2   Africa/Addis_Ababa
...
362   Pacific/Wake
363   Pacific/Wallis
364   Pacific/Yap
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 3. Specifying the local timezone"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:clock timezone 109
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:root
