.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:alarms"
.SH NAME
config:alarms \- Configure alarm notification.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:alarms [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:alarms command to enable or disable alarm notification, and to 
resolve active alarms.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:alarms command:
.SS "notify <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the alarm notification feature.  When off, alarm
messages will not appear in traffic_shell.
.SS "resolve-name <string>"
Specifies the name of the alarm to resolve.
.SS "resolve-number <integer>"
Specifies the alarm to resolve from the show:alarms list.
.SS "resolve-all"
Specifies resolution of all active alarms.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling Alarm notification"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:alarms notify on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Resolving an alarm by name"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:alarms resolve-name MGMT_ALARM_PROXY_PROCESS_DIED
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Resolving an alarm by number"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:alarms resolve-name 1                            
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:alarms
