.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:ldap"
.SH NAME
config:ldap \- Configures LDAP settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:ldap [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:ldap command enables you to configure LDAP settings through a variety of options. 
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:ldap command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the LDAP feature.
.SS "cache-size <integer>"
Specifies the size of the LDAP cache.
.SS "ttl <ttl>"
Specifies the time-to-live value for LDAP.
.SS "purge-fail <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the purge-fail LDAP functionality.
.SS "multiple <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the multiple LDAP functionality.
.SS "bypass <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the bypass LDAP functionality.
.SS "file <url>"
Specifies the location of the filter.config file to be installed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the proxy to serve LDAP requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ldap on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the cache-size for LDAP"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:ldap cache-size 5000
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:ldap, show:ldap-stats
