.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:dns"
.SH NAME
config:dns \- Configures DNS lookups.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:dns [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the config:dns command to configure DNS proxying and DNS lookups. When you execute the 
config:dns command, you must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:dns command:
.SS "proxy <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the DNS proxying feature.
.SS "proxy-port <integer>"
Specifies the port number used by the DNS proxy.
.SS "resolve-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the DNS lookup timeout in seconds. (The default value is 20.)
.SS "retries <number>"
Specifies the number of DNS retries. (The default value is 5.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying 10 seconds as the DNS lookup timeout"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:dns resolve-timeout 10
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying a value of three for DNS retries"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:dns retries 3
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:dns-resolver, show:dns-stats
