.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:qt"
.SH NAME
config:qt \- Configures Quicktime protocol caching.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:qt [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:qt command enables you to configure Quicktime protocol caching 
through a variety of options. 
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:qt command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the Quicktime protocol.
.SS "monitor-name <string>"
Specifies the monitor name.
.SS "monitor-port <portno>"
Specifies the monitor port number.
.SS "name <string>"
Specifies the Media Bridge Name.
.SS "port <portno>"
Specifies the Media Bridge port number.
.SS "mount-point <string>"
Specifies the Media Bridge mount point.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying the Quicktime Media Bridge port number"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:qt monitor-port 10088
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the Quicktime Media Bridge mount point"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:qt mount-point inktomi
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:qt
