.TH "config:nntp"
.SH NAME
config:nntp \- Configures NNTP caching and access control.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:nntp [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:nntp command enables you to configure NNTP caching and access control 
through a variety of options. You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:nntp command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the proxy from serving NNTP requests. (The 
default value is off.)
.SS "port <portnum>"
Specifies the port that the proxy uses to serve NNTP requests. (The default is 
port 119.)
.SS "connect-msg <posting | non-posting> <string>"
Type posting after connect-msg to specify the message that displays to news 
readers when they connect to the proxy if posting is enabled. Type non-posting 
after connect-msg to specify the message that displays to news readers when they 
connect to the proxy if posting is not enabled.
.SS "posting <on|off>
Enables (on) or disables (off) posting. When enabled, users can post NNTP 
articles to parent NNTP servers. (The default value is on.)
.SS "access-control <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) access control. When enabled, you can control user access to news articles cached by the proxy according to the access privileges set in the nntp_access.config file. (The default value is off.)
.SS "v2-auth <on | off>
Enables (on) or disables (off) support for NNTP version 2. Enable this option 
only if you are certain that all your client authentication supports NNTP 
version 2. (The default value is off.)
.SS "local-auth <on | off>"
Runs the authentication server in local mode, enabling the traffic_cop process 
to watch and restart it automatically in case of failure. (The default value is 
off.)
.SS "clustering <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) NNTP clustering.
.SS "allow-feeds <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the allow feeds option that allows the proxy to 
accept feeds of news articles from feed or push groups. (Default value is on.)
.SS "access-logs <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) logging of NNTP transactions in the event logs. 
(Default value is on.)
.SS "background-posting <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) background posting. When enabled, the proxy posts 
NNTP articles to parent NNTP servers in the background. (Default value is off.)
.SS "obey-cancel <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the obey cancel control messages option. When 
enabled, the proxy deletes the article from the cache when it receives a cancel 
control message. (Default value is off.)
.SS "obey-newsgroup <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the obey newgroups control messages option. 
(Default value is off.)
.SS "obey-rmgroups <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the obey rmgroups control messages option. 
(Default value is off.)
.SS "inactive-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the number of seconds that idle NNTP connections can remain open. It 
is recommended that you specify a value of at least 3 minutes. (Default value is 
600.)
.SS "check-new-groups <seconds>"
Specifies how often (in seconds) the proxy polls parent NNTP servers for new 
groups. You must list the NNTP servers you want to poll in the 
nntp_servers.config file. (Default value is 86400.)
.SS "check-cancelled <seconds>"
Specifies how often (in seconds) the proxy polls parent NNTP servers for 
canceled articles. (The default value is 3600.)
.SS "check-parent <seconds>"
Specifies how often (in seconds)the proxy polls parent NNTP servers for new articles. (The default value is 300.)
.SS "check-cluster <seconds>"
Specifies how often (in seconds) the proxy polls other nodes in the cluster for new articles. (The default value is 60.)
.SS "check-pull <seconds>"
Specifies how often (in seconds) the proxy caches news articles from pull groups. (The default value is 600.)
.SS "auth-server <servername> auth-port <portnum> auth-timeout <ms>"
Specifies the hostname of the authentication server. The value NULL defaults to 
localhost. (The default value is NULL.) Specifies the port used for the proxy and authentication server communication.  (The default value is 0.) 
.SS "client-throttle <bytespersecond>"
Specifies the number of bytes per second that clients are allowed to download. A value of 0 means that downloading is not limited. (The default value is 0.)
.SS "nntp-servers <url>"
Specify a URL from which the proxy will retrieve and install the 
nntp_servers.config file.
.SS "nntp-access> <url>"
Specify a URL from which the proxy will retrieve and install the 
nntp_access.config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the proxy to serve NNTP requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the port number used to serve NNTP "
.SS "           requests"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp port 119
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying a message that displays to news readers"
.SS "           when they connect to the proxy when posting is"
.SS "           enabled"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp connect-msg posting "NNTP server. posting ok"
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Enabling posting, disabling support for NNTP "
.SS "           version 2, enabling logging of NNTP transactions,"
.SS "           and enabling obey rmgroups control messages"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp posting on v2-auth off access-logs on obey-rmgroups on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 5. Specifying idle NNTP connections duration, "
.SS "           NNTP parent polling for new articles, and proxy "
.SS "           caching of news articles from pull groups"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp inactive-timeout 10 check-parent 50 check-pull 100
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 6. Specifying authentication server hostname, port"
.SS "           used for the proxy and authentication server "
.SS "           communication, and authentication timeout"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp auth-server inktominntpserver.inktomi.com auth-port 100 
auth-timeout 5000
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 7. Specifying client download limits"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp client-throttle 0
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 8. Specifying a URL from which the proxy will retrieve"
.SS "           and install the nntp_servers.config file"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:nntp nntp-servers http://somedomain.com/path/nntp_servers.config
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:nntp, show:nntp-stats
