.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:get"
.SH NAME
config:get \- Displays a variable from the records.config file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:get [variable]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:get command enables you to display a variable and its value from the 
records.config file. 
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.SS "<variable>"
You must type the name of the variable that you want to see.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "When you execute the config:get command, you see results "
.SS "in the following format:"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:get proxy.config.http.server_port
proxy.config.http.server_port = 8080
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:set
