.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:network"
.SH NAME
config:network \- Configures system network settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:network [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:network command enables you to configure network settings such as hostname, 
defaultrouter, search-domain, dns, and interface settings.
You must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:network command:
.SS "hostname <string>"
Specifies the fully qualified hostname.
.SS "defaultrouter <x.x.x.x>"
Specifies the IP address of the default router.
.SS "search-domain <string>"
Specifies the search domain.
.SS "dns <a.a.a.a b.b.b.b c.c.c.c>"
Specifies the IP addresses of one or more DNS servers.
.SS "int"
Displays the Network Interfaces.
.SS "int <interface>"
Displays information pertaining to a Network Interface.
.SS "int <interface> down"
Bring down a Network Interface.
.SS "int <interface> up <onboot | not-onboot> <static | dhcp> <ip> <netmask> <gateway>"
Bring up a Network Interface with the specified settings: boot status, static IP versus DHCP, IP address, netmask, and gateway IP (or default).
.SS "int <interface> <onboot | not-onboot>"
Specify the boot status of a Network Interface.  NIC must already be up.
.SS "int <interface> <static | dhcp>
Specify static IP or DHCP for a Network Interface.  NIC must already be up.
.SS "int <interface> ip <x.x.x.x>"
Specify the IP address of a network interface.  NIC must already be up.
.SS "int <interface> netmask <x.x.x.x>"
Specify the netmask of a network interface.  NIC must already be up.
.SS "int <interface> gateway <x.x.x.x | default>"
Specify the gateway IP address, or default to use the defaultrouter.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying the hostname"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:network hostname host.example.com
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying multiple DNS servers"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:network dns "x.x.x.x y.y.y.y z.z.z.z"
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Listing the Network Interfaces"
traffic_shell> config:network int
eth0
eth1
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Bringing up a Network Interface with IP address x.x.x.x and netmask y.y.y.y"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:network int eth0 onboot static x.x.x.x y.y.y.y default
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:network
