.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:socks"
.SH NAME
config:socks \- Enable and configure SOCKS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:socks [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
You use the config:socks command to enable the SOCKS option and configure SOCKS 
parameters, including default servers, version, and port values.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:socks command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the SOCKS option. (The default value is 
disabled.)
.SS "version <integer>"
Specifies the SOCKS version number.
.SS "default-servers <string>"
Specifies the IP address of the SOCKS server.
.SS "accept <on | off>"
Specifies whether SOCKS accept is on or off.
.SS "accept-port <integer>"
Specifies the port used by the proxy to communicate with the SOCKS server. (The 
default value is 1080.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the SOCKS option"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:socks mode on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the SOCKS server IP address"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:socks server-ip 209.1.1.1
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying the port used by the proxy to communicate with the SOCKS server"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:socks port 1080
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying the timeout duration for the proxy to wait for a SOCKS server response"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:socks timeout 100
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:socks
