.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:security"
.SH NAME
config:security \- This command enables you to apply Traffic Server and Traffic 
Manager access configuration file settings to Traffic Server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:security [ip-allow | mgmt-allow | admin] [url-config-file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The config:security command enables you to indicate from what URL Traffic Server 
should retrieve the configuration file (IP_allow) that controls client access to 
the Traffic Server proxy cache. The command also enables you to indicate from 
what URL Traffic Server should retrieve the configuration file (mgmt_allow) that 
controls remote host access to the Traffic Manager UI. Finally, the 
config:security command enables you to indicate from what URL Traffic Server 
should retrieve the configuration file (admin) (password) that controls 
administrator access to Traffic Manager activities.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:security command:
.SS "ip-allow <url>"
Specifies the configuration file that controls client access to the Traffic 
Server proxy cache.
.SS "mgmt-allow <url>"
Specifies the configuration file that controls remote host access to the Traffic 
Manager UI.
.SS "admin <url>"
Specifies the configuration file that controls administrator access to Traffic 
Manager activities.
.SS "password <string>"
Specifies the administrator password that the administrator must use to access 
the Traffic Manager UI.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Locating the access file to specify client access"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:security ip-allow http://something.com/ip_allow.config
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:security
