.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:scheduled-update"
.SH NAME
config:scheduled-update \- Enables and configures the scheduled update option.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:scheduled-update [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
When you enable scheduled update, the proxy can automatically update certain 
objects in the local cache at a specified time. When you execute the 
config:scheduled-update command, you must use one of the options described 
below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:scheduled-update command:
.SS "status <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) the scheduled update option. When this option is 
enabled, the proxy can automatically update certain objects in the local cache 
at a specified time. (The default value is disabled.)
.SS "retry-count <integer>"
The retry count specifies the number of times the proxy can retry the scheduled 
update of a URL in the event of failure. (The default value is 10.) 
.SS "retry-interval <seconds>"
The interval specifies the delay in seconds between each scheduled update retry for a URL in 
the event of failure. (The default value is 2 seconds.)
.SS "max-concurrent <integer>"
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous update requests allowed at any 
point in time. This option prevents the scheduled update process from 
overburdening the host. (The default value is 100.)
.SS "force-immediate <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) a force immediate update. When enabled, the proxy 
overrides the scheduling expiration time for all scheduled update entries and 
initiates updates until this option is disabled.(The default value is disabled.)
.SS "rules <url>"
Specifies the location (URL) from which the proxy should retrieve your scheduled 
update rules file. The proxy retrieves your rules file and saves it locally as 
update.config. The update.config file controls how the proxy performs a 
scheduled update of specific local cache content.
Once you use the rules option with a URL, thereby saving your update.config 
file, you can use the rules option (without typing a URL) to display the 
update.config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Enabling the scheduled update option"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:scheduled-update on
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying the number of retries allowed in case of failure and the delay between each retry"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:scheduled-update retry count 10 interval 2
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Disabling the force immediate updates option"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:scheduled-update force-immediate off
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying the location (URL) from which the proxy should retrieve your scheduled update rules file to be saved locally as the update.config file"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:scheduled-update rules http://somedomain.com/~path/rulesfile
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 5. Displaying the update.config file"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:scheduled-update rules
  update.config rules
  ------------------- 
  (Displays the rules from the update.config file.)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:scheduled-update
