.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "config:hostdb"
.SH NAME
config:hostdb \- Configures the host database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
config:hostdb [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Use the config:hostdb command to configure the host database. You configure such 
parameters as foreground, background, and lookup timeouts. When you execute the 
config:hostdb command, you must use one of the options described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the config:hostdb command:
.SS "lookup-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the maximum number of seconds the proxy can wait for a lookup response 
from the Domain Name Server. (The default value is 120.)
.SS "foreground-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the foreground timeout in seconds. (The default value is 1440.)
.SS "background-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the background timeout in minutes. (The default value is 720.)
.SS "invalid-host-timeout <seconds>"
Specifies the invalid host timeout in minutes. (The default value is zero.)
.SS "re-dns-on-reload <on | off>"
Enables (on) or disables (off) DNS lookup upon reload.  (The default value is 
off.)
.SS "clear"
Clear the Host DB.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Specifying 30 seconds as the maximum that"
.SS "           the proxy waits for a DNS lookup response"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:hostdb lookup-timeout 30
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 2. Specifying 12 seconds as the foreground "
.SS "           timeout"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:hostdb foreground-timeout 12
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 3. Specifying 24 seconds as the background"
.SS "           timeout"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:hostdb background-timeout 24
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 4. Specifying 30 minutes as the invalid host"
.SS "           timeout"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:hostdb invalid-host-timeout 30
traffic_shell> 
.SS "Example 5. Enabling DNS on reload"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> config:hostdb re-dns-on-reload on
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:hostdb, show:hostdb-stats
