.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "enable"
.SH NAME
enable \- Enable privileged commands.
.SH SYNOPSIS
enable
.SH DESCRIPTION
If you are in Monitor mode and want to enter Configure mode, type 
the enable command.  You will be prompted to enter the administrator password.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the enable command:
.SS "status"
Display the enable status, on or off.
.SH EXAMPLE 
.TP
.fi
When you execute the enable command, you see the following:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> enable status
off
traffic_shell> enable
Password: (enter password)
traffic_shell> enable status
on
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:root, disable, exit
