.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:network"
.SH NAME
show:network \- Basic network parameters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:network
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:network command displays the values for basic network parameters. The 
show:network command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
When you execute the show:network command, you see results in the following 
format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:network
Hostname ---------------- hostname.domain.com
Default Gateway --------- x.x.x.x
Search Domain ----------- domain.com
DNS IP Addresses--------- x.x.x.x
NIC eth0
  Status ---------------- up
  Start on Boot --------- onboot
  Start Protocol -------- none
  IP Address ------------ x.x.x.x
  Netmask --------------- x.x.x.x
  Gateway --------------- default
NIC eth1
  Status ---------------- up
  Start on Boot --------- onboot
  Start Protocol -------- none
  IP Address ------------ x.x.x.x
  Netmask --------------- x.x.x.x
  Gateway --------------- default
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:network
