.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:parent"
.SH NAME
show:parent \- This command displays parent configuration information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:parent [rules]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:parent command displays parent configuration details, specifying 
whether parent caching is enabled and identifying the parent cache, if 
appropriate. The show:parent command takes an option called rules and returns 
additional details.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS rules
The rules option enables you to specify the parent proxy and parent directives 
for specific objects or sets of objects.
.SH EXAMPLES
When you execute the show:parent command, you see results in the following 
format:
.SS "Example 1. Displaying basic parent configuration information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:parent
Parent Caching -- off
Parent Cache ---- NULL
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Displaying parent configuration rules,"
.SS "           including parent directives"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:parent rules
parent.config rules
------------------- 
(Displays the rules in the parent.config file.)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:parent
