.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:http-trans-stats"
.SH NAME
show:http-trans-stats \- This command displays HTTP transaction statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:http-trans-stats
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:http-trans-stats command displays HTTP transaction statistics, 
including hit, miss, and abort details. The show:http-trans-stats command takes 
no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
When you execute the show:http-trans-stats command, you see results in the 
following format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:http-trans-stats
HTTP Transaction Frequency and Speeds
Transaction Type              Frequency  Speed(ms)
--Hits--
Fresh ----------------------- 0.000000%  0
Stale Revalidated ----------- 0.000000%  0
--Misses--
Now Cached ------------------ 0.000000%  0
Server No Cache ------------- 0.000000%  0
Stale Reloaded -------------- 0.000000%  0
Client No Cache ------------- 0.000000%  0
--Errors--
Connection Failures --------- 0.000000%  0
Other Errors ---------------- 0.000000%  0
--Aborted Transactions--
Client Aborts --------------- 0.000000%  0
Questionable Client Aborts -- 0.000000%  0
Partial Request Hangups ----- 0.000000%  0
Pre-Request Hangups --------- 0.000000%  0
Pre-Connect Hangups --------- 0.000000%  0
--Other Transactions--
Unclassified ---------------- 0.000000%  0
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:cache-stats, show:http-stats, config:http
