.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:nntp"
.SH NAME
show:nntp \- This command displays NNTP configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:nttp [servers | access]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute the show:nntp command to view basic NNTP configuration information, or type the servers 
or access options with the show:nntp command to display access.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the show:nntp command:
.SS servers
The servers option describes the upstream servers for particular groups.
.SS access
The access option describes client access rules.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SS "Example 1. Displaying basic NNTP configuration information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:nntp
NNTP Caching --------------------------- on
NNTP Server  --------------------------- off
NNTP Server Port ----------------------- 119
Connect Message ------------------------ Inktomi NNTP server ready. posting ok
Connect Message ------------------------ Inktomi NNTP server ready. no posting
NNTP Options:
  Posting ------------------------------ on
  Access Control ----------------------- off
  V2 Authentication -------------------- off
  Local Auth. Server ------------------- off
  Clustering --------------------------- on
  Allow feeds -------------------------- on
  Access Logs -------------------------- on
  Background Posting ------------------- off
  Obey Cancel Control ------------------ off
  Obey NewGroups Control --------------- off
  Obey RmGroups Control ---------------- off
Check for New Groups Every ------------- 86400 s
Check for Cancelled Articles Every------ 3600 s
Check Parent NNTP Server Every---------- 300 s
Check Cluster Every -------------------- 60 s
Check Pull Groups Every ---------------- 600 s
Authentication Server Host ------------- NULL
Authentication Server Port ------------- 0
Local Authentication Server Timeout ---- 50000 ms
Client Speed Throttle ------------------ 0 bytes/s
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Displaying nntp_servers.config rules"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:nntp servers
nntp_servers.config rules
-------------------------
(Displays nntp_servers.config rules)
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 3. Displaying client access rules"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:nntp access
nntp_access.config rules
------------------------
(Displays nntp_access.config rules)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:cache, show:cache-stats, config:nntp
