.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:socks"
.SH NAME
show:socks \- This command displays SOCKS configuration information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:socks [rules]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute the show:socks command to view basic SOCKS configuration information, which include whether SOCKS is enabled, as well as default servers, version, and port values.
.SH OPTION
The following option is supported for the show:socks command:
.SS "[ rules ]"
The rules option displays SOCKS configuration detail from the socks.config file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Displaying basic SOCKS configuration information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:socks
SOCKS -------------------- off
SOCKS Version ------------ 4
SOCKS Default Servers ---- s1.example.com:1080;socks2:4080
SOCKS Accept Enabled ----- off
SOCKS Accept Port -------- 1080
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Displaying socks.config file rules"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:socks rules
socks.config rules
-------------------
(Displays rules from the socks.config file.)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:socks
