.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:wmt"
.SH NAME
show:wmt \- This command displays Windows Media Technology protocol configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:wmt
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:wmt command displays Windows Media Technology protocol configuration information, 
such as port numbers.  The show:wmt command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
When you execute the show:wmt command, you see results in the following format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:wmt
WMT Caching ------------- on
WMT Port ---------------- 1755
Proxy only -------------- off
Prebuffering ------------ 5000 ms
TCP Prebuffering -------- 200 ms
Loadpath ---------------- no-file
Loadhost ---------------- no-load-host-set.no-domain
Chunksize --------------- 10 s
Old ASX behavior -------- 0 s
ASX Rewrite ------------- on
Redirect ---------------- off
Retransmit window ------- 65
Monitor Version --------- 0
Monitor Livehosts ------- NULL
Monitor Name ------------ NULL
Monitor Port ------------ 10088
Media Bridge Name ------- NULL
Media Bridge Port ------- 10022
Media Bridge Mount ------ ffnet
traffic_shell> 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:wmt, show:wmt-stats
