.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:logging"
.SH NAME
show:logging \- This command displays logging configuration information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:logging
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:logging command displays logging configuration information, including 
collation, management, format, and rolling configuration (see example below). 
The show:logging command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
When you execute the show:logging command, you see results in the following 
format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:logging
Logging Mode ----------------------------- errors and transactions
Management
  Log Space Limit ------------------------ 2000 MB
  Log Space Headroom --------------------- 10 MB
Log Collation ---------------------------- off
  Host ----------------------------------- NULL
  Port ----------------------------------- 8085
  Secret --------------------------------- foobar
  Host Tagged ---------------------------- off
  Space Limit for Orphan Files ----------- 25 MB
Squid Format ----------------------------- on
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ squid
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL
Netscape Common -------------------------- off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ common
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL
Netscape Extended ------------------------ off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name ------------------------------ extended
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL
Netscape Extended2 ----------------------- off
  File Type ------------------------------ ASCII
  File Name   ---------------------------- extended2
  File Header ---------------------------- NULL
Splitting
  ICP Log Splitting ---------------------- off
  HTTP Host Log Splitting ---------------- off
Custom Logs ------------------------------ off
Custom Log Definition Format ------------- Traditional
Rolling ---------------------------------- on
  Roll Offset Hour ----------------------- 0
  Roll Interval -------------------------- 86400 s
  Auto-delete rolled files (low space) --- on
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:logging
