.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:hostdb"
.SH NAME
show:hostdb \- This command displays host database configuration information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:hostdb
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:hostdb command displays the host database configuration information, 
including various timeout values and number of retries (see example below). The 
show:hostdb command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
When you execute the show:hostdb command, you see results in the following format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:hostdb
Lookup Timeout ----------- 120 s
Foreground Timeout ------- 1440 s
Background Timeout ------- 720 s
Invalid Host Timeout ----- 0 s
Re-DNS on Reload --------- off
Resolve Attempt Timeout -- 20 s
Number of retries -------- 5
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:hostdb
