.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:proxy-stats"
.SH NAME
show:proxy-stats \- This command displays a summary of proxy statistics.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:proxy-stats
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:proxy-stats command displays a summary of global proxy statistics, 
including hit rate, bandwidth saving, open connections, and throughput. The 
show:proxy-stats command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE
When you execute the show:proxy-stats command, you see results in the following 
format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:proxy-stats
Document Hit Rate -------- 0.000000%     *
Bandwidth Saving --------- 0.000000%     *
Cache Percent Free ------- 0.000000% 
Open Server Connections -- 0
Open Client Connections -- 0
Open Cache Connections --- 0
Client Throughput -------- 0.000000 MBit/Sec
Transaction Per Second --- 0.100000
* Value represents 10 second average.
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:cache, config:cache
