.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:icp"
.SH NAME
show:icp \- This command displays ICP configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:icp [peers]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The show:icp command displays ICP configuration settings, including connectivity 
and timeout and expiration values. The show:icp command takes no options.
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is supported for the show:icp command:
.SS peers
The peers option describes ICP parent and sibling configuration.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Displaying ICP configuration information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:icp
ICP Mode Enabled ------- off
ICP Port --------------- 3130
ICP Multicast Enabled -- off
ICP Query Timeout ------ 2 s
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Describing ICP parent and sibling configuration"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:icp peers
icp.config Rules
-------------------
###########################################################
#
# ICP Configuration -- Defines ICP parent/sibling configuration
#
#  Each line is formatted as follows with ":" separator for each field.
#    - hostname (string)           -- Identifier for entry
#    - host_ip_str (string)        -- decimal dot notation
#    - ctype (int)                 -- 1=Parent, 2=Sibling
#    - proxy_port (int)            -- TCP Port #
#    - icp_port (int)              -- UDP Port #
#    - multicast_member            -- 0=No 1=Yes
#    - multicast_ip_str (string)   -- decimal dot notation
#                                     224.0.0.0 - 239.255.255.255
#    - multicast_ttl (int)         -- (1 - 2; default 1)
#
# <host>:<host IP>:<ctype>:<proxy port>:<icp port>:<MC on>:<mc IP>:<MC ttl>:
#
# Example #1 (1 parent and 1 sibling):
# =========================================================
#     host1:209.1.33.10:1:8080:3130:0:0.0.0.0:1:
#     host2:209.1.33.11:2:8080:3130:0:0.0.0.0:1:
#
#
# Example #2 (1 parent and 1 sibling using MultiCast):
# =========================================================
#     host1:209.1.33.10:1:8080:3130:1:239.128.16.128:1:
#     host2:209.1.33.11:2:8080:3130:1:239.128.16.128:1:
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:icp-stats, config:icp
