.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:http"
.SH NAME
show:http \- This command displays HTTP configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:http
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute the show:http command to view HTTP configuration information, such as 
timeouts values, header insertions, and port specifications. The show:http command 
takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE 
.PP
When you execute the show:http command, you see results in the following format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:http
HTTP Caching ------------------ on
HTTP Server Port -------------- 8080
HTTP Other Ports -------------- NULL
Keep-Alive Timeout Inbound ---- 10 s
Keep-Alive Timeout Outbound --- 10 s
Inactivity Timeout Inbound ---- 120 s
Inactivity Timeout Outbound --- 120 s
Activity Timeout Inbound ------ 7200 s
Activity Timeout Outbound ----- 7200 s
Maximum Number of Alternates -- 3
Remove additional headers ----- NULL
Insert Client IP Address into Header
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
show:cache, show:proxy, show:proxy-stats, show:cache-stats, config:reset-stats
