.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:ldap"
.SH NAME
show:ldap \- This command displays basic LDAP configuration information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:ldap [rules]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute the show:ldap command to view basic LDAP configuration information, which includes 
whether LDAP is enabled, as well as cache size and time to live values.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported for the show:ldap command:
.SS rules
The rules option displays LDAP configuration file detail.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Displaying basic LDAP configuration information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:ldap
LDAP ---------------------- off
Cache Size ---------------- 5000
TTL Value ----------------- 3000 ms
Purge Cache On Auth Fail -- off
Server Name --------------- NULL
Server Port --------------- 0
Base DN ------------------- NULL
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Displaying filter.config file rules"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:ldap rules
filter.config rules
-----------------------
(Displays rules from the filter.config file used by the LDAP feature.)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:ldap
