.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:scheduled-update"
.SH NAME
show:scheduled-update \- This command displays basic object-update information.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:scheduled-update [rules]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With scheduled update, the proxy loads specific objects into the cache at scheduled times. 
Execute the show:scheduled-update command to view basic object-update information, which 
includes whether scheduled update is enabled, as well as error retry and concurrent update 
values.
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is supported for the show:scheduled-update command:
.SS rules
The rules option displays update.config file configuration detail. The file contains a list of 
URLs specifying objects that you want to schedule for update. Be aware that the system validates 
these URLs for syntactic correctness, but not for existence.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Example 1. Displaying basic object-update configuration"
.SS "           information"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:scheduled-update
Scheduled Update ------------- off
Update Error Retry Count ----- 10
Update Error Retry Interval -- 2 s
Maximum Concurrent Updates --- 100
Force Immediate Update ------- off
traffic_shell>
.SS "Example 2. Displaying update.config file rules"
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:scheduled-update rules
update.config rules
-------------------
(Displays rules from the update.config file.)
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:scheduled-update
