.\"  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one .\"
.\"  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file .\"
.\"  distributed with this work for additional information .\"
.\"  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file .\"
.\"  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the .\"
.\"  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance .\"
.\"  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at .\"
.\" .\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 .\"
.\" .\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software .\"
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, .\"
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. .\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and .\"
.\"  limitations under the License. .\"
.TH "show:port-tunnels"
.SH NAME
show:port-tunnels \- This command displays the ports through which the proxy may 
tunnel.
.SH SYNOPSIS
show:port-tunnels
.SH DESCRIPTION
Execute the show:port-tunnels command to see the tunneling ports. The show:port-
tunnels command takes no options.
.SH EXAMPLE 
When you execute the show:port-tunnels command, you see results in the following 
format:
.PP
.nf
traffic_shell> show:port-tunnels
server-other-ports -- NULL
To view the corresponding rule of the remap.config file in the following format
map tunnel://<proxy_ip>:<port_num>/tunnel://<dest_server>:<dest_port>
use show:remap
traffic_shell>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
config:port-tunnels, show:remap
