doc/appendices/command-line/traffic_server.en.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../common.defs

.. _traffic_server:

traffic_server
**************

Description
===========

Options
=======

.. program:: traffic_server

.. option:: -n COUNT, --net_threads COUNT

.. option:: -Z COUNT, --cluster_threads COUNT

.. option:: -U COUNT, --udp_threads COUNT

.. option:: -a, --accepts_thread

.. option:: -b, --accept_till_done

.. option:: -p PORT, --httpport PORT

.. option:: -P PORT, --cluster_port PORT

.. option:: -f, --disable_freelist

In order to improve performance, :program:`traffic_server` caches
commonly used data structures in a set of free object lists. This
option disables these caches, causing :program:`traffic_server` to
use :manpage:`malloc(3)` for every allocation. Though this option
should not commonly be needed, it may be beneficial in memory-constrained
environments or where the working set is highly variable.

.. option:: -o LEVEL, --dprintf_level LEVEL

.. option:: -R LEVEL, --regression LEVEL

.. option:: -r TEST, --regression_rest TEST

.. option:: -T TAGS, --debug_tags TAGS

.. option:: -B TAGS, --action_tags TAGS

.. option:: -i COUNT, --interval COUNT

.. option:: -M, --remote_management

.. option:: -C CMD, --command CMD

.. option:: -k, --clear_hostdb

.. option:: -K, --clear_cache

.. option:: -c CORE, --read_core CORE

.. option:: --accept_mss MSS

.. option:: -t MSECS, --poll_timeout MSECS

.. option:: -h, --help

   Print usage information and exit.

.. option:: -V, --version

   Print version information and exit.

Environment
===========

.. envvar:: PROXY_REMOTE_MGMT

.. envvar:: PROXY_AUTO_EXIT

Commit message:

TS-4370: Add a traffic_server option to list tests.
Add the -l option to traffic_server option to list the available
tests. This is helpful when you want to run specific tests but need
to know what they are.

doc/appendices/command-line/traffic_server.en.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

.. include:: ../../common.defs

.. _traffic_server:

traffic_server
**************

Description
===========

Options
=======

.. program:: traffic_server

.. option:: -n COUNT, --net_threads COUNT

.. option:: -Z COUNT, --cluster_threads COUNT

.. option:: -U COUNT, --udp_threads COUNT

.. option:: -a, --accepts_thread

.. option:: -b, --accept_till_done

.. option:: -p PORT, --httpport PORT

.. option:: -P PORT, --cluster_port PORT

.. option:: -f, --disable_freelist

In order to improve performance, :program:`traffic_server` caches
commonly used data structures in a set of free object lists. This
option disables these caches, causing :program:`traffic_server` to
use :manpage:`malloc(3)` for every allocation. Though this option
should not commonly be needed, it may be beneficial in memory-constrained
environments or where the working set is highly variable.

.. option:: -o LEVEL, --dprintf_level LEVEL

.. option:: -R LEVEL, --regression LEVEL

.. option:: -r TEST, --regression_test TEST

.. option:: -l, --regression_list

If Traffic Server was built with tests enabled, this option lists
the available tests.

.. option:: -T TAGS, --debug_tags TAGS

.. option:: -B TAGS, --action_tags TAGS

.. option:: -i COUNT, --interval COUNT

.. option:: -M, --remote_management

.. option:: -C CMD, --command CMD

.. option:: -k, --clear_hostdb

.. option:: -K, --clear_cache

.. option:: -c CORE, --read_core CORE

.. option:: --accept_mss MSS

.. option:: -t MSECS, --poll_timeout MSECS

.. option:: -h, --help

   Print usage information and exit.

.. option:: -V, --version

   Print version information and exit.

Environment
===========

.. envvar:: PROXY_REMOTE_MGMT

.. envvar:: PROXY_AUTO_EXIT
